Let's set up these tools.
The first one is called Dtslint.
And I'm introducing it first not because
it's best, but it's the oldest and
the most established one.
It also happens to be the one
that definitely-typed uses.
So if you're at all involved with
fixes to ambient type information,
you will find yourself
needing to work with Dtslint.
It's already installed in the project.
So what we need to do here is
look at the README very carefully
because the setup process
is slightly elaborate.
And if you like,
this is a good kinda of thing to just
watch me do if you feel like
learning from me is a little
bit more important than
following directly yourself.
So you wanna read this
README very carefully.
Because this tool is not strictly designed
for exactly what we're using it for, but
it will work.
I'm gonna create a folder in my
test folder called types-pts.lint.
And inside this folder,
I'm gonna create three things,
index.dts, tsconfig, and a tslint file.
We haven't talked about tslint
because it's deprecated.
Used to be sort of the best in
class linter for TypeScript.
But like some of the documentation
tools I mentioned,
it is very tightly coupled
with the compiler API.
So it always tended to lag
behind new compiler releases and
just the upkeep required to
keep it working was very high.
It's one of these things where we stand
on the shoulders of everything that came
before us.
And so it didn't do anything bad.
It's expensive to keep working on it.
So Dtslint announced that they're
voluntarily deprecating their project and
they're channeling their efforts
into the ESLint stuff that we have
already been using today.
The testing tool we're using
is built on top of TSLint and
it is a project maintained
by Microsoft and is used for
the Microsoft-owned
definitely-typed project.
So I am pretty confident in its stability,
given that it needs to keep working or
the ecosystem will have big problems.
So I'm just copying this TSLint JSON and
I'm gonna copy this tsconfig.
All right,
now a couple things to look at here.
In this tsconfig,
we have a paths property.
So this is designed to allow you to
refer to this project that you're
testing in the natural way that
it would be referred to by users.
So you're importing from your disk folder,
not from the source folder.
So in this case, what we're gonna need
to do is, A couple things.
So first,
we need to generate type information
because our dist folder
doesn't contain any
declaration files at this point in time.
In fact, I will save us the trouble
of having to work with that.
We can write types for some tests.
I'll just wire us up one
little declaration file here.
I'm just trying not to spend
an excessive amount of time on this,
cuz you can just look at
a working setup and kinda copy it.
I do want you to understand
what's going on here.
So we're gonna need another tsconfig here.
So let's try this, tsc,
outDir is dist-types.
Declaration, I think it's this one,
declaration only.
Hopefully this worked.
Now we'll just do another config file.
That way you don't have to
copy down a special command.
All right, so like our ESLint 1,
I'm just gonna use that as
the starting point, right?
Cuz I wanna refer to
the existing tsconfig.
We don't need this type thing,
we don't need allow.js,
what we do need is outDir to be
dist-types, just a brand new folder.
We want declarations, true.
emitDeclarationOnly, true.
That's the one I was trying to remember.
And we'll just worry
about this source folder.
So we can do TSC P for project.
And let's see how this works.
And we still have all this trace
resolution metadata down there.
We have one error.
NoEmit is turned on.
So we'll turn it off.
So we actually emit, and while I'm here,
I'm just gonna turn that
trace resolution off
since it's just muddying
the terminal there.
Did I save this?
NoEmit is false.
All right,
must have just forgotten to save it.
So what we should have here
is a disk-types folder and
it only contains declaration files.
So this is great.
This is just what we want.